[DOCS-10653] Obs Pipelines OCSF Custom Configuration (#28892)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/processors/remap_ocsf/custom_mapping_configuration_format.md

    "class": "Network Activity",
    "profiles": ["container", "host", "security_control"]
  },
  "preprocess": [],
  "mapping": []
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The mapping descriptor has four main sections:

| Name       | Required  | Description                                                                                                           |
|------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `version`    | Yes       | Must be set to `1` to indicate the mapping descriptor format version.                                                 |
| `metadata`   | Yes       | Contains a set of hard-coded description fields about the event class. See [Metadata section](#metadata-section) for details.                         |
| `preprocess` | No        | An ordered list of preprocessing steps. The preprocessors reformat raw data from the sources so that the data can be converted to OCSF format based on `mapping`. Each preprocessor entry consists of a `function` and parameters associated with that function. See [Preprocessors](#preprocess-section) for more information. |

> | `mapping`    | Yes       | An ordered list of field-to-field assignments, where a `source` field is assigned to a `dest` field in the output OCSF event. Each [mapping](#mapping-section) may have a `conversion` specified by a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables) or post-processing [mapping function](#mapping-functions). |

Reviewer: Is there a reason `conversion` is between quotes although it doesn't correspond to the naming an existing field or variable?

Reviewer 2: That is a relic of the original mapper implementation. Originally there was a field called `conversion` that could be either a lookup table or a function, but I have subsequently broken it out into separate handling. It might be worth clarifying that here.

Author: @bruceg  Does this make it clearer?

```suggestion
| `mapping`    | Yes       | An ordered list of field-to-field assignments, where a `source` field is assigned to a `dest` field in the output OCSF event. Each [mapping](#mapping-section) may have a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables) or post-processing [mapping function](#mapping-functions) to reformat the data. |
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's great.

> | `mapping`    | Yes       | An ordered list of field-to-field assignments, where a `source` field is assigned to a `dest` field in the output OCSF event. See  for more information. Each [mapping](#mapping-section) may have a `conversion` specified by a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables) or post-processing [mapping function](#mapping-functions). |

Reviewer 3: I think there might be a missing link in the `mapping` description. (See for more information.)

### Metadata section

The metadata section requires the following:

| Name     | Required | Description                                                                                     |
|----------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `version`  | Yes      | The target OCSF schema version.                                                                 |
| `class`    | Yes      | The name of the OCSF event class. The event class ID, category name, and category ID are derived from this. |
| `profiles` | Yes      | An array of profile names that are added to the event class schema.                             |

### Preprocess section

> The `preprocess` section lists the preprocessors that reformats the data to allow field-to-field mappings. Each entry in this section consists of a `function` and the parameters associated with that function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `preprocess` section lists the preprocessors that reformat the data to enable field-to-field mappings. Each entry in this section consists of a `function` and the parameters associated with that function.
```

#### `parse_csv`

The `parse_csv` preprocessor:

1. Extracts data in the `source` field.
1. Parses `source` as CSV and maps the values to the `columns` listed.
1. Inserts the mapped data in the `dest` field.

Columns with a `null` value are dropped. One of the columns can have a wildcard (`*`), in which case it is assigned a string containing all the text from the fields that remain after those before and after have been mapped.

The following is an example of a `preprocess` section:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML example" %}}

```yaml
preprocess:
- function: parse_csv
  source: message
  dest: .
  skip_empty: true
  columns:
  - null
  - receive_time
  - serial
  - type
  - subtype
  - null

>   - 'wildcard*'

Author: I tried it out here: https://yaml-online-parser.appspot.com/
And it seems like `wildcard*` does get auto-quoted without me having to add the quotes, but we can leave it if it's better to have it

  - time_generated
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "JSON example" %}}

```json
{
  "preprocess": [
    {
      "function": "parse_csv",
      "source": "message",
      "dest": ".",
      "skip_empty": true,
      "columns": [
        null,
        "receive_time",
        "serial",
        "type",
        "subtype",
        null,
        "wildcard*",
        "time_generated"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

In the example above, the preprocessor expects an input of an array with seven or more elements. Since the first and sixth `columns` are `null`, the corresponding elements in the array are dropped. The other six array elements are mapped to:
- `receive_time`
- `serial`
- `type`
- `subtype`
- `time_generated`
- `wildcard`, which is set to the remaining columns of the array.

For example, if the source log contains the following:

```
 { "message": "a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h,i,j,k" }
```

The preprocessor would reformat the data in JSON to:

```json
{
  "receive_time": "b",
  "serial": "c",
  "type": "d",
  "subtype": "e",
  "wildcard": "g,h,i,j",
  "time_generated": "k"
}
```

### Mapping section

> The `mapping` section is an ordered list of field-to-field assignments. Each mapping entry consists of a `dest` path that refers to the destination field in the OCSF event and either a `source` path that refers to a field in the source event or a `value` that contains a literal constant to insert at that destination.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `mapping` section is an ordered list of field-to-field assignments. Each mapping entry consists of a `dest` path that refers to the destination field in the OCSF event, and either a `source` path that refers to a field in the source event, or a `value` that contains a literal constant to insert at that destination.
```

A `source` path starting with `OCSF.` refers to a field in the output OCSF event that has been previously assigned.

> Use the `default` value if the source path may not exist before processing is done. The mapping may also optionally specify a `function` to and/or a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables).

Author: ```suggestion
Use the `default` value if the source path may not exist before processing is done. The mapping may also optionally specify a [function](#mapping-functions) and/or a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables).
```

> Use the `default` value if the source path does not exist before processing is done. The mapping may also optionally specify a `function` to and/or a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `default` value if the source path may not exist before processing is done. The mapping may also optionally specify a `function` to and/or a [lookup table](#mapping-lookup-tables).
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML example" %}}

```yaml
mapping:
- dest: activity_name
  value: Create
- dest: actor.session.issuer
  source: authenticationContext.issuer.id
  default: Unknown
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON example" %}}

```json
{
  "mapping": [
    {
      "dest": "activity_name",
      "value": "Create"
    },
    {
      "dest": "actor.session.issuer",
      "source": "authenticationContext.issuer.id",
      "default": "Unknown"
    }
  ]
}
```

If the source contains the following:

```json
{
  "authenticationContext": {
    "issuer": {
      "id": "something"
    }
  }
}
```

Then based on the example `mapping` above, the data is converted to the mapping part of the OCSF output as:

```json
{
  "activity_id": 1,
  "activity_name": "Create",
  "actor": {
    "session": {
      "issuer": "something"
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

#### Implicit mappings

> All enumerated name or label fields identified in the OCSF schema are converted to their sibling `id` field. For example, the string field `severity` is automatically converted to the numeric OSCF field `severity_id` based on the values defined in the OCSF schema. See `severity_id` in [Authentication [3002]][1] for the OCSF values. If no matching value is found in the lookup table, the `id` field is set to `99` to represent `Other`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All enumerated name or label fields identified in the OCSF schema are converted to their sibling `id` field. For example, the string field `severity` is automatically converted to the numeric OSCF field `severity_id` based on the values defined in the OCSF schema. See `severity_id` in [Authentication][1] for the OCSF values. If no matching value is found in the lookup table, the `id` field is set to `99` to represent `Other`.
```

    - matches: "^[Mm]ac *OS"
      value: macOS
    default: Unknown
- dest: activity_name
  source: createdDateTime
  lookup:
    table:
    - equals_source: lastUpdatedDateTime
      value: Create
    default: Update
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON example" %}}

```json
{
  "mapping": [
    {
      "dest": "src_endpoint.os.type",
      "source": "client.userAgent.os",
      "lookup": {
        "table": [
          {
            "contains": "Windows",
            "value": "Windows"
          },
          {
            "equals": "Linux",
            "value": "Linux"
          },
          {
            "matches": "^[Mm]ac *OS",
            "value": "macOS"
          }
        ],
        "default": "Unknown"
      }
    },
    {
      "dest": "activity_name",
      "source": "createdDateTime",
      "lookup": {
        "table": [
          {
            "equals_source": "lastUpdatedDateTime",
            "value": "Create"
          }
        ],
        "default": "Update"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Mapping functions

A function applies an operation to the value extracted from the source, before assigning the extracted value to the destination.

> ### `concat_arrays`

Reviewer 2: I think this and all functions should be one level indented:
```suggestion
#### `concat_arrays`
```

The `concat_arrays` function looks up a second `source` and, if it exists, concatenates it to the original source data. If a source is not an array, the source is converted into an array with a single element. The result is always an array.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML example" %}}

```yaml
- dest: metadata.labels
  source: systemTags
  function:
    name: concat_arrays
    source: customTags
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON example" %}}

```json
{
  "dest": "metadata.labels",
  "source": "systemTags",
  "function": {
    "name": "concat_arrays",
    "source": "customTags"
  }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### `reshape_array`

> The `reshape_array` function extracts data from a source array to create a new array of values. The function filters only array elements containing a field that matches a condition from the list in [Mapping lookup tables](#mapping-lookup-tables), and extracts another field into the output array.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `reshape_array` function extracts data from a source array to create a new array of values. The function filters array elements, selecting only those that contain a field matching a condition from the [Mapping lookup tables](#mapping-lookup-tables), and extracts another field into the output array.
```

Reviewer 3: This might be because I'm not very familiar with OCSF or Observability Pipelines, but I'm not sure I understand what 'another field' refers to in the phrase 'and extracts another field into the output array.'"

Reviewer 2: That is a reference to a field within elements of the array. i.e. if the array contains `[{"a":1},{"a":2}]` then you could indicate you want to extract field `a` and it would result in `[1, 2]`.
